Feature/trigger patterns (#30)
hashicorp/terraform-docs-common: website/docs/cloud-docs/api-docs/workspaces.mdx

| `data.attributes.description`                 | string  | (nothing) | A description for the workspace.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `data.attributes.execution-mode`              | string  | `remote`  | Which [execution mode](/cloud-docs/workspaces/settings#execution-mode) to use. Valid values are `remote`, `local`, and `agent`. When set to `local`, the workspace will be used for state storage only. This value must not be specified if `operations` is specified.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

> | `data.attributes.file-triggers-enabled`       | boolean | `true`    | Whether to filter runs based on the changed files in a VCS push. If enabled it uses either `trigger-prefixes` in conjunction with `working_directory` or `trigger-patterns` to describe a set of triggers upon which a run will be triggered. If disabled, any push will trigger a run.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: A couple nits here and then I think we should (once those docs are written) link to the section that will contain info about prefixes and patterns.

```suggestion
| `data.attributes.file-triggers-enabled`       | boolean | `true`    | Whether to filter runs based on the changed files in a VCS push. If enabled, it uses either `trigger-prefixes` in conjunction with `working_directory` or `trigger-patterns` to describe a set of events that will start a run. If disabled, any push will trigger a run. Refer to [Automatic Run Triggering](/cloud-docs/workspaces/settings/vcs#automatic-run-triggering) for details.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
```

Author: IMHO `events` sounds a bit generic, especially because we'll have additional trigger types (the one based on git tags). These two types (`trigger-prefixes` and `trigger-patterns`) are concerned with the changed files and their paths. Could there be a better way of emphasizing that? Maybe `to describe paths of changed files that will start a run`?

Reviewer: this is a very fair point - good call. I like "to describe the set of changed files that will start a run" - do it!

| `data.attributes.speculative-enabled`         | boolean | true      | Whether this workspace allows automatic [speculative plans][]. Setting this to `false` prevents Terraform Cloud from running plans on pull requests, which can improve security if the VCS repository is public or includes untrusted contributors. It doesn't prevent manual speculative plans via the CLI or the runs API.                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `data.attributes.terraform-version`           | string  | (special) | The version of Terraform to use for this workspace. This can be either an exact version or a [version constraint](/language/expressions/version-constraints) (like `~> 1.0.0`); if you specify a constraint, the workspace will always use the newest release that meets that constraint. If omitted when creating a workspace, this defaults to the latest released version.                                                                                                                                   |

> | `data.attributes.trigger-prefixes`            | array   | `[]`      | List of trigger prefixes that describe the paths Terraform Cloud monitors for changes, in addition to the working directory. Trigger prefixes are always appended to the root directory of the repository.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer 2: I think we should update this here to say something like "the prefix matching implies that any directory who's path matches the prefix set will cause a run to be triggered."

Reviewer: ahhh. okay I think "Terraform Cloud will start a run when files are changed in any directory path matching the provided set of prefixes." 

@omarismail thoughts?

Author: Changed according to @laurapacilio's proposal. 771411637c386d91a2f7225babbffac3d9ea2ed5

cc. @omarismail

| `data.attributes.terraform-version`           | string  | (special) | The version of Terraform to use for this workspace. This can be either an exact version or a [version constraint](/language/expressions/version-constraints) (like `~> 1.0.0`); if you specify a constraint, the workspace will always use the newest release that meets that constraint. If omitted when creating a workspace, this defaults to the latest released version.                                                                                                                                   |
| `data.attributes.trigger-prefixes`            | array   | `[]`      | List of repository-root-relative paths which should be tracked for changes, in addition to the working directory.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

> | `data.attributes.trigger-patterns`            | array   | `[]`      | List of repository-root-relative glob patterns which describe files tracked for changes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer: What do we mean by "repository root relative" here? If you give me some more details I will think about how we can make sure it's clear to users :)

Author: That means the provided triggers always start from the root of a repository.
So if someone inputs trigger `/test/submodule`, that trigger will be prepended with wherever the repository is located -> e.g. `/Downloads/repository/test/submodule`.

Reviewer: ahhh okay okay - i made a suggestion to clarify this a bit. See what you think!

> | `data.attributes.trigger-patterns`            | array   | `[]`      | List of repository-root-relative glob patterns which describe files tracked for changes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer: What about something like this?

```suggestion
| `data.attributes.trigger-patterns`            | array   | `[]`      | List of glob patterns that describe the files Terraform Cloud monitors for changes. Trigger patterns are always appended to the root directory within the repository.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
```

Author: What about saying `of the repository` instead of `withing the repository`?

Also should we then change wording for prefixes as well to match the same style:
```
List of repository-root-relative paths which should be tracked for changes, in addition to the working directory.
```

Author: I went ahead and made changes, let me know if something should be changed.
4227735d18cce384e666ca1acecfc532ba90ae3c

}
```

> A run will be triggered in this workspace when Terraform Cloud detects any of the following changes:

Reviewer 2: On [line 130](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-docs-common/blame/6b51020614afcccabde9d2975eea657604711c78/website/docs/cloud-docs/api-docs/workspaces.mdx#L130), it says "for a monorepo". I think we should add documentation here to state "when using prefixes, ..." and "when using patterns, ..."

Reviewer: wait, I'm confused by what you mean by "in a bolded subsection". OH do you mean we need to set this off with a header the way "with monorepo" is?

GOOD CATCH.  Let me add a suggestion to see if that's what you mean.

Reviewer 2: Yup, this looks good!

> A run will be triggered in this workspace when Terraform Cloud detects any of the following changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_For a monorepo using trigger patterns_

A run will be triggered in this workspace when Terraform Cloud detects any of the following changes:
```

Author: f86354d02613909232e68d1b77afe086e49cbdba

Author: f86354d02613909232e68d1b77afe086e49cbdba

- in any folder tree which has the leaf folder named `networking` and the change was made in a file with the extension `tf`
- in any file changed in the folder `/base`, no subfolders are included

> - in any file changed in the folder `/submodule` and all its subfolders

Author: That's the last folder on the path tree.

```
               root /
         ┌──────────────┐
         ▼              ▼
     networking       module
     ┌────          ┌──────────────┐
     ▼              ▼              ▼
  main.tf       submodule     networking
                ┌────              ────┐
                ▼                      ▼
            networking              main.tf
             ┌───
             ▼
          main.tf
```
In this example it will match all the `main.tf`s whenever they are located in networking folder, but the networking folder has to be the last folder. For example the following path is not matched because, even though we have networking on the path, it is not the last folder:
```
        root /
          │
          ▼
      networking
          │
          ▼
       submodule
          │
          ▼
        main.tf
```

> - in any file changed in the folder `/submodule` and all its subfolders

Reviewer: OHHHHHHH - okay I tried to update my suggestion to clarify this a tiny bit. Let me know what you think!

> - in any file changed in the folder `/submodule` and all its subfolders

Author: 4249075f623344eeeb379bd8b0eaa4198ad92515

```json
{
  "data": {
    "attributes": {
      "name": "workspace-4",
      "resource-count": 0,
      "terraform_version": "1.2.2",
      "trigger-patterns": ["/**/networking/*.tf", "/base/*", "/submodule/**/*"],
      "vcs-repo": {

>         "identifier": "skierkowski/terraform-test-proj-monorepo",

Reviewer: I think we should change this to something without a name in it :) It's better to be generic in the docs and not include personal identifiers!

```suggestion
        "identifier": example/terraform-test-proj-monorepo",
```

Author: agree, should be changed for all 16 occurrences then.

| `data.attributes.description`                 | string         | (previous value) | A description for the workspace.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `data.attributes.execution-mode`              | string         | (previous value) | Which [execution mode](/cloud-docs/workspaces/settings#execution-mode) to use. Valid values are `remote`, `local`, and `agent`. When set to `local`, the workspace will be used for state storage only. This value must not be specified if `operations` is specified.                                                                                                                      |

> | `data.attributes.file-triggers-enabled`       | boolean        | (previous value) | Whether to filter runs based on the changed files in a VCS push. If enabled it uses either `trigger-prefixes` in conjunction with `working_directory` or `trigger-patterns` to describe a set of triggers upon which a run will be triggered. If disabled, any push will trigger a run.                                                                                                     |

Reviewer: updated per our discussion above!

| `data.attributes.terraform-version`           | string         | (previous value) | The version of Terraform to use for this workspace. This can be either an exact version or a [version constraint](/language/expressions/version-constraints) (like `~> 1.0.0`); if you specify a constraint, the workspace will always use the newest release that meets that constraint.                                                                                                   |
| `data.attributes.trigger-prefixes`            | array          | (previous value) | List of repository-root-relative paths which should be tracked for changes, in addition to the working directory.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

> | `data.attributes.trigger-patterns`            | array          | (previous value) | List of repository-root-relative glob patterns which describe files tracked for changes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: same comment as above :)

> | `data.attributes.trigger-patterns`            | array          | (previous value) | List of repository-root-relative glob patterns which describe files tracked for changes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `data.attributes.trigger-patterns`            | array          | (previous value) | List of glob patterns that describe the files Terraform Cloud monitors for changes. Trigger patterns are always appended to the root directory within the repository.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
```
